Hey, YouTube. Hey, Chris.
Hey there.
Hey, awesome to have you here on the live stream
and in just a moment on the podcast. So for those of you out there listening,
if you've got some comments, throw them in the live chat. We'll try to make them part of the show.
Got a bunch of cool libraries to share and if you have more ideas
on things that are similar, throw those out there as well and we'll try to pull them up potentially.
And with that, Chris, you ready to kick this off?
Let's go.
- All right, Chris, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Ah, thanks for having me.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here on the show.
You know, we've worked on some projects together
and talked otherwise,
but your first time here on Talk Python.
- Monumental.
- Indeed, indeed.
So I'm super excited to talk about Django.
I don't do that much Django,
which is why you're here
because you do a ton of stuff with Django.
So really excited to have you share your experience.
and we're gonna focus on a bunch of cool little tools
and apps that you can plug into Django
and make it better, make it do more,
and do a lot of the Django things,
you know, pull a few pieces together
and make your app better without a lot of coding, right?
- That's the idea.
- Indeed.
Before we get to all that though,
let's just start with your background.
How'd you get in programming and Python?
- So I'm an old man, not punch card old,
but single digit megahertz old.
My dad worked for IBM.
So my first computer was an IBM PC Junior.
256 kilobytes of memory with the expansion card,
no hard drive, five and a quarter floppy
and 4.77 megahertz.
And that second seven is really, really important.
It made all the difference.
I'm pretty sure the--
- Did it have a turbo button?
- Sorry?
- It did not.
IBM did not, did not do that little bit of marketing stuff,
but I'm pretty sure my USB charger has more processing power now.
But all my friends had Commodores and so I couldn't trade pirated games with
them cause that's what everyone did.
And the box came with this kid friendly teach yourself basic book.
And so that was kind of my intro.
There was,
I had one game and nothing else to do with the computer.
And the first program I remember writing was a Batman logo,
not copying it from a book, like on my own kind of thing.
And so like the basic library had like draw arc
and fill in yellow and it kind of clicked for me.
And 30 years later, I was running a software department
at a company that got acquired by a large firm
who shall remain nameless.
They just own all of your favorite movie franchises
and have a rodent fronting it.
I think you know who I'm talking about.
And as part of that acquisition, the department got shut down,
but we were asked to stick around to help with the transition.
We had about two weeks worth of work to do, and we had six months to do it in.
So I had a fair amount of spare time on my hands and I used that to pick up
Python.
And the first script I wrote in Python was,
uh, that we had a photo sharing site and the due diligence of the transfer
included looking for questionable content in that photo sharing site.
and I had to, for the police investigation,
go off and grab a whole bunch of stuff out of S3
and download it that belonged to this one individual.
So the script was kind of icky,
but I was very, very impressed on how little code
I had to write in comparison to previous languages.
Part of that's Python itself,
and part of it was just, you know,
pip install, pip install, pip install,
and it solved all these problems.
And I've never looked back.
It's been my primary language for almost 15 years now.
- Yeah, what a good language, what a good choice.
Who knew 15 years ago or 10 years ago
or whenever we all got into it
that it would be so incredibly popular?
- Yeah, it's grown a lot.
It's, yeah, it's really taken off.
- I just saw an article, what was it called?
The Unstoppable Programming Language
or something like that from InfoWorld.
And boy, I'll even pull it up.
What an interesting situation where,
you know, the subtitle of the article is
Unstoppable Python, once again,
ranked number one in the TOV index.
Yeah.
- It's the, I think it's the breadth of the libraries,
right? Like most other languages, there's, you know,
JavaScript is often at the top of that list,
but it's only really for one purpose.
It's for building web applications.
And I know you can do other things in it
and not trying to upset the internet,
but with the data science behind it,
- You're gonna get us email, Chris.
- Oh yeah, I'm sure.
Well, you'll get them email, I'll be long gone.
So that's fine.
With the data science side, with the ML side,
with the, you can do things on the website, right?
Like there's being number two in all of these areas
very easily makes you number one overall, right?
So it's, yeah, I think it's the breadth more than anything.
- Yeah.
You talked about how the company went out, was acquired
had all this sort of time to kind of think about changes.
I find times like that are really interesting ways
to maybe refocus your career or to think about where you've
been and where you might be going,
maybe whether you should turn left or right
or just keep going the way you are.
I've had a few like that and those are some good
opportunities to take if you can get them.
- Yeah, it gives you a chance to experiment if nothing else.
There was no pressure to pick up a language.
I was a manager at the time, so there was no pressure at all, period.
But yeah, it gives you the breathing room to go and play with a few things
and get comfortable with it.
And the next job I took was helping a small startup.
And a manager comes to me and says, oh, pick the language, pick the stack.
And I was like, OK, we'll do Python, we'll do Django.
Then it sort of went from there.
Yeah, good choice.
How about now?
What are you doing these days?
So my marketing people tell me I'm supposed to call myself
a fractional CTO.
So I help organizations with technical decisions
and software processes.
So that's architecture, some coding,
often it means nowadays the agile process stuff.
So it's a bit of a mixed bag.
Tend to specialize in trying to get small teams
more efficient in some tech way,
either the process or the learning itself.
And because of the agile thing,
I've done a fair amount of teaching
'cause oftentimes when you're bootstrapping new teams,
you gotta start out with Scrum 101
and all that kind of good stuff.
And that kind of led into the screencasting
and online teaching world.
So now I've done over 30 courses in Python
and I'm still clicking along.
So it's become this sort of side thing that I have
that has blown up into its own thing.
- Yeah, I can relate.
I can definitely relate.
That's awesome. - Yes.
(laughing)
- Well, cool.
So part of that actually is,
you and I just recently worked on a course
for Talk Python Training, Django Getting Started,
which there's been, it's a six hour course,
people can check it out, there's a bunch of good stuff.
We're not gonna really talk about that,
but it kind of got me thinking like,
hey, wouldn't it be great to just cover
all the cool little things that you touch on here
and then just in your other training.
I guess people probably could reach out to you
if they've got a team and they want to maybe help them shift gears,
help them change technologies or change the way they're working?
Sure.
Always, always nice to have the pipeline full. So for sure.
Indeed. Yeah. So, you know, you always,
you might be brought into to do one thing like, Hey,
help us do Django or help us change the way we're working with,
sort of deploying our apps or whatever. But then there's like, Oh,
but did you know about this tool?
And have you tried this and wouldn't it be easier
if you use that?
And so how about we make that the next hour?
- Yeah, and this kind of ties back to that,
we were sort of talking about Python
and the breadth of that, right?
One of the reasons it's so easy to get a lot of things going
is because there were so many libraries
that have been there and done that.
And I often, we're gonna talk about later,
one of the ones that's sort of a catch-all.
And every time I'm in there, I'm like, oh, oh wait,
I need to remember that's in here.
'cause I keep writing that code, right?
So knowing that things are out there
and finding this stuff can make a big difference
in how little code you have to write.
And it's always great when someone else has tested it
because then not only are you not having to write it
yourself, but it's probably more stable
than the stuff that you're writing yourself.
Or at least I'll speak for myself.
More stable than my code. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
Well, I think, you know, people who are getting
into programming think about what is an expert?
An expert is somebody who could write these crazy algorithms
or implement this wild file processing stuff from scratch.
And that somewhat is true,
but more often the expert is the person
that knows they can pip install this other thing
and not have to write that.
You know, they're like, "Oh, these libraries exist.
And I know they'll work in this situation.
I don't need to do this."
Right? So yeah.
- Once you've written it.
- It's both the power, but it's also really like
knowing Python, I think knowing Python
is partly knowing the libraries
outside of just the language.
I would say more than partly like picking up a new language is if you've done a
few before and it's in the same vein, although you know,
all the grandchildren of C based languages, it's like, okay, so how do they,
what's variable assignment look like? What, what does for loops look like?
Once you've done that, you know, a few days later you're ready to go.
Knowing the depth of what's out there so that you don't have to write it,
that takes forever. Right. So, you know, there's,
there's language expertise within months. There's library expertise,
which is years and is constantly changing too.
- It's nonstop.
It's like, you can't learn them as quickly
as they come out really,
especially if you're in JavaScript.
That's another story.
Yeah, I saw a funny t-shirt that said,
"I learned Python, it was a great weekend."
And that's true, right?
But on the other, you'll compare and contrast that
to like, I feel like I've been doing this forever
and I'm still learning every single day.
- Yep.
- How do you square those two things, right?
It's a lot largely what you just said.
Yeah. All right.
So we're going to talk about a bunch of different topics.
We'll see what the final number is.
17-ish different libraries,
some of them directly pluggable into Django
for specific things,
and some of them just really helpful for Django.
So you want to kick us off with the first one here?
- Yeah. So there's sort of two groups.
And the first group of things that we're going to talk about
are libraries that any project of a reasonable size
should consider using.
So these are, like you said,
these aren't the Django specific stuff.
And then we'll get through a few of those
and then we'll get into the actual,
this you should use this for Django.
So this first one that you've got up on the screen there,
this is coverage.
This measures how much of your code gets run
when you run your code.
So it's typically used for your user tests.
And what you're trying to figure out is
how much of your code has been exercised
when you run your tests.
So it has sub commands, one of which is run
and you basically hand it any script
and it will give you a output listing
of what it saw as it went along.
That output listing is like a file by file listing
and shows you like a percentage mark that says,
oh, you know, 30% or 50% or whatever of this file
got executed in your run.
And then there's a couple other commands that you can run
that will combine all this information into a report
and the report is spit out in HTML.
And that gives you a fully annotated list of your code.
So you can go in and see, oh, there's the red line.
That's a line that didn't get triggered.
So often I find when I'm writing tests,
it's usually fairly easy to get the easy path through,
right?
You're not thinking about the errors or whatever.
You just heard, oh, I exercised it.
And then you go, oh, I've only got 75%.
Well, finding if you want that,
you want to have something higher than that.
You go in, you look at the report and you go,
oh, that red line is that error condition.
I need to add a test to make sure that that error condition is handled properly.
So I often take this one and then write a little bash script that does this,
runs my tests, and then runs a linter afterwards.
So it's my little check-in hook, right?
So just before I do a push, it'll go off and run all my tests and give me coverage.
And if I don't like the numbers, then I go off and fix it some more.
- I think when you're learning about testing,
it's important to test the happy path,
But that's the one that is often kind of obvious, right?
It's you're going to know right away if that thing is broken,
but it's those edge cases.
What if I put a string into this input where, you know,
a number like the word seven versus the number seven?
Is that a 500 server error or is that a sorry invalid data
ideally even caught on the client side
with HTML5 validation or something, right?
Those kinds of things are really hard to think about
and coverage really points out, you know what?
All the parts that are red, that are uncovered,
those are the error handling or the guarding clauses
or the other cases where you're not normally
gonna run into them, so you really need
to have a test to check them.
- Yeah, that's right.
I'm also, independent of coverage,
I'm also a big fan of when bugs show up.
I'm not a pure TDD guy until bugs show up.
So when the bug shows up, I go and write the test
that triggers the bug and then I fix it
'cause then I'm adding to my regression test as well.
So that's also one that to your point,
it's those weird conditions that you didn't even think of.
And coverage, because it is only line-based,
you can get into trouble where the first part of an if clause
passes and the second part doesn't.
And so it's green, it looks like it's happy,
but that doesn't mean you don't have a bug.
So there's always this mix and go,
but coverage can help you find this stuff
the first time through if you're looking.
- Yeah, I'm definitely not a purist,
TDD purist myself either.
I find there's, tests add a lot of value,
but there's also a practical,
I just gotta get some stuff done
and I don't need to like retest everything.
It'll--
- Only so many hours in the day, yes.
- Exactly, but I do like this idea of like,
once you've found a bug,
if you can reproduce it with a test,
you kind of pin it down so you don't play whack-a-mole
and have it ever come back.
- Yep, exactly. - Yep, yeah.
Kind of related to this whole part of the conversation,
Anthony in the audience asks,
he's interested to know how best to test
Django web apps with pytest.
Feels that there ought to be ready-made recipes for this
given how opinionated Django is.
Do you got any thoughts on that?
- I don't actually use pytest myself.
So I'm only vaguely familiar with it.
There are some recipes out there.
I know there are Django apps that you can install
that will help you and have pre-canned with the recipes.
Django is fairly robust itself.
It builds a whole bunch of things on top
of the unit test framework that is very Django specific.
And it allows you to shortcut the web as well.
So you can access the views directly,
which means you don't have to worry about
like a lot of JavaScript and things like that.
And it also has a live server mode,
which I was playing with this afternoon, actually,
which runs a server so that you can run things
like Selenium on top of it.
So there's a fairly rich set of mechanisms in there
for Django to begin with.
From what I understand of the pytest library,
it really just sort of makes some of those hooks easier
and exposes them rather than introducing
a lot of extra functionality.
- For sure.
Wouldn't you know that there's an awesome Django list?
And it happens to be done by Will Benson.
In here, there's a whole section on testing.
Oh, it's right there.
And you've got some pytest Django.
You've got Factory Boy for test fixture replacements.
A feature flipper, Django waffle.
That's kind of an interesting name.
model bakery for creating, I'm guessing,
the ORM models in interesting ways.
And yeah, people can check this out.
Another related question, Nick asks,
I'd like to hear opinions on mocking the ORM database
when testing versus actually using the database.
I don't know how you feel about this, Chris.
- I don't tend to mock unless I absolutely have to.
I usually mock for things like,
oh, we have to do something with dates
and that dates and times always cause problem
'cause you're running the test now.
For the ORM, I tend to just use tests straight into the ORM.
Django comes with a lot of mechanisms like fixtures
that allow you to push things into the database.
And the test suite automatically will install those fixtures
and wraps each test in transactions.
So it does it and then undoes what you did.
So you're always in a known good state
at the beginning of each one of your functions.
So I haven't really come across a case
where I really need to mock out the ORM.
I would guess there's probably a argument about speed there,
but I tend to get around that
with things like tagging my tests.
So I will tag much that are like the smoke tests,
the quick one pass through.
And if I need like a really fast test to run on say check-in
then use a smoke tag and then let the regression run
overnight if I have to or whatever.
So I haven't come across the need
for mocking it out yet myself.
- Yeah, and you can use SQLite
with an in-memory database model as well.
And just as started the whole test run,
you could fill that in-memory version up
with known good test data.
The transactions will kind of roll it back each time, right?
And so just let it rip on SQLite in memory
and then disappear into the ether of RAM.
Yeah, yeah, it's it tends to be unless you're doing huge amounts of work.
It tends to be pretty peppy.
Yeah, it's sure.
Yeah. And you can choose how much data you put in it, right?
So you can
chill out on that. All right.
The next thing kind of related to that is pie flakes.
So I mentioned at the end of that.
Yeah, go ahead, Chris.
I mentioned at the end of that that I often use a winter.
This is the one that I tend to go to.
PyFlakes is a little--
it is code-focused rather than style-focused.
So when I first started linting Python,
a lot of the code I was maintaining
was not PEP8 compliant.
And we'd run the linters, and they were just constantly
screaming about everything.
PyFlakes was like a nice little happy medium for us.
It runs using the abstract syntax trees,
which mean it doesn't actually load the modules, which
is good, because that means you're not
having to do the side effects of your actual code.
And I usually use it for things like finding unused imports
and weird variables and things like that.
The other place is I find if I've
made a lot of changes across a whole bunch of files,
running PyFlex before I run my tests,
it's a bit of an idiot check.
So the things that don't compile or whatever,
it'll go through and run everything once for you.
And it seems I find it faster to do that than, say,
run all my tests first.
>>Sure.
This is kind of like a compiler.
and compiled languages, C++, C#, whatever,
you press compile and there's a,
how does it all hang together sort of check
that the system has to go through as a static language.
And we don't have that.
Even if you put type hints,
that's a hint, not a requirement for accuracy.
And so not saying that this does, you know,
type validation like mypy,
but it makes sure that your code
at least somewhat hangs together, right?
- Yeah, it's a sanity checking, yeah.
- Absolutely.
- And there's a version of this,
if you wanna dig down into it,
that is called Flake 8,
that combines PyFlakes with PEP 8.
So if you wanna get all anal retentive
about the code cleaning and all the rest of that,
you can dig into that.
And essentially it's just called
the same kind of commands after it.
Also has a nice little,
one of the things I always look for in a linter
is the pragma that says ignore this line,
so that you can turn off the noise
'cause every once in a while,
there's gonna be something that you want it to ignore.
And I find as soon as you've got warnings popping up
in your code, it starts to become broken window theory.
Right? Like, oh, there's a warning there.
Oh, now there's two warnings there.
Now there's three warnings there.
And the next thing you know, you've got a hundred warnings
and nobody's doing anything about them.
So I like to try-
- That's exactly the analogy I was thinking as well.
And that's the way it is.
'Cause especially in a team situation,
there's some people who really bought into like CI
and that kind of stuff.
other people who are not really that interested and worried
whether the test still passed or worried about whether the
linters pass and they're just going to go along. But
certainly if that kind of stuff starts showing up, they're like,
well, if it's already got warnings, I don't care about one
more, you know?
Yeah, yeah. So zero warnings policy is pretty good. And this
kind of thing helps you find that and check it easily.
Right. So for people who are listening, you just put hash for
comment flake8 colon no QA on a line and then it'll skip that line. You know
there's times when you get advice that in general is good advice like try
accept pass or something like that you should never do that except for
sometimes in little weird situations you're like no I really just need this
to not care if there's an error and just keep going and we're just you know stuff
And you'll be stuck with this permanent warning.
This file has an error.
You're catching too broad of an exception.
You're like, in general, yes, but right now I don't care.
I accept that.
Let's just keep going together.
And this kind of stuff really is great
for making those warnings go away.
- Well, and you can tie it into your PR process as well.
So if I'm doing a poll review for something you've done
where you've put this, we can have a policy that says
there better be a comment above it
that explains why you're allowed to ignore it
in this session.
becomes sort of two kinds of flag.
It's a flag for PyFlakes and it's also a flag
for your code reviewer to go,
oh, we should explain why, you know, is this a valid case?
Oh yes, we do.
This is the generic.
So let's put a comment that says, yes, we meant to do this
rather than I was just too lazy to fix it.
- Yeah, that's a really good point.
Actually, I like that a lot.
All right, onto another.
Sphinx, the Python documentation generator.
- Yeah, so this is a sort of bit of a left turn here.
I will admit I am obsessive compulsive
when it comes to comments and documentation.
I did co-op in university,
which is what I think they call paid internships in the US.
And my third co-op term was with the same department
as my second.
And the first day back into the office,
I said hello to everyone.
And then my boss says,
"Hey, there's a bug in the code you wrote last term,
go fix it."
And if my name had not been at the top of the commit,
I would have sworn this was written by somebody else.
The code was just hideous.
And this is where I learned the whole comments
are for other people is only half right.
Sometimes you're that other person like eight months later.
Yeah, so I've become very, very retentive about it.
And so what Sphinx is, is a mechanism
for taking your PyDoc comments
and turning it into documentation.
And so if you were writing your comments already,
it gives you a couple little formatting tags
that you should take advantage of.
But once you've done that,
it isn't really much more effort
than just say writing the comment.
And then you can write this script
and it will spit out documentation.
It's based on a restructured text format.
So that's the .RST file,
which is similar to Markdown if you're used to that.
And it includes thing, you can do basic type setting
like bolding and that kind of stuff, tables.
But one of the things I find I use a lot is you can...
highlight references to other parts of your code.
So if I've got a class that I'm using here,
an object that is some sort of class,
if I note it properly in the comment,
when the documentation is created, I can click a link
and it'll take me through to it.
So you can always find the cross-references.
It generates...
- Fantastic.
- It generates all sorts of different kinds of output.
personally only ever use the HTML,
but it does EPUB, man pages,
LaTeX if you wanna spit out some PDF
and some other things as well.
Comes with a sort of a quick start command
that builds all your cookie cutter files for what you need.
And it also allows you to intermix in general RST files.
So if you want to write, say a how-to guide
separate from your code,
but then suck in some documentation from your code,
it allows you to mix and match that.
So as an example--
- So a tutorial or installing or something like that.
- Exactly, yeah.
So I often will write,
although Markdown is the most common format
for the README file on GitHub,
I use README.RST.
And the reason I do that is because I usually use
that same README file as the intro file in my Sphinx doc.
So I essentially just say, oh, go grab that README.RST,
pull it in here as the title page,
add a little table of contents flag on the bottom of it.
And the next thing you know, you've got some documentation.
- So yeah, that's really fantastic.
And when you can get your work to multiply automatically.
- Yeah, and obviously, you've got to have been
in the habit of doing this kind of stuff anyways,
but if you were adding a little bit of a rigor
to how you're writing the comments helps a lot.
And I find particularly with things like APIs, right?
'cause you should be writing that doc string anyways
that says this is what the call is,
these are the parameters and what they mean,
and it turns all that into a PDF document
that you can hand off to managers or whatever,
put up on your webpage or however you like to do that.
- Yeah, and for those who are not a fan
of restructured text, there's the Mist MYST Markdown version
or a plugin, so you can do Markdown as well these days.
- I have to check that out,
I haven't played with that one yet.
- Yeah, yeah, it's pretty neat.
You can even do inline restructured text
within your markdowns.
You're like markdown, markdown,
oh, I need something a little bit more complicated.
There's a way, I don't remember what the syntax is,
but there's a way to inline a little restructured text.
- Excellent. - And then fall back
to markdown, yeah.
- And then embed your HTML inside of your restructured text
inside of your markdown.
It's turtles all the way down, excellent.
- Absolutely.
- The other thing, there are companion plugins
for this as well.
So one of the other libraries that I use is something called a Sphinx RTD theme,
which is a read the docs style theme and plugs right in.
And essentially it allows you to generate your HTML looking like the read the
docs site. And if you combine that with a get hook into read the docs,
a your read the docs will get automatically updated every single time you do
your pushup to get so nice little combination.
Yeah, that's very cool.
I do find it sort of meta that the Sphinx read the docs theme is hosted on read
docs. Yes. So fun. All right. PUDB. Is that the right? I have no idea how you're supposed
to pronounce it. I always say PUDB, but that's fine.
Well, I do feel like a lot of these projects like this one, if you have too much of an
acronym or you're too clever of a name, you really should put a, and here's the MP3 of
- I love how you say it. - Hey, there you go.
Yes, the little-- I loved that answer with Linux.
It was, "Hi, my name is Linus, and this is how you spell Linux."
And I couldn't understand his accent, and it didn't clear anything up.
- It was fantastic. - That's funny.
So I think I've mentioned up front that I'm old.
So a lot of my early career was spent on Unix systems,
SunSpark systems, that kind of stuff.
And at the time, there was this whole war between VI and Emacs.
The war is over, I think, VS Code 1.
But I picked VI because it was the only thing guaranteed to be installed on any of the systems I was telnetting into.
And so I'm still very old school using Vim to this day.
I mean, you just said the word telnet, come on.
I'm keeping it. It was telnetting. It was pre-SSH.
I know. Now, hold on now. Did you do like Archie and Gopher before telnet?
A little bit of Gopher. I was never on an Archie system. I did a little bit of Gopher.
Yeah, so it could even go more old school than that.
But yeah, OK.
Yeah, OK, great.
So maybe these days you're SSHed in, but same basic idea, right?
Same basic idea.
So why am I babbling about this?
Well, what this means is because I use an editor rather than an IDE.
And of course, there's another place where you'll get letters
because you can do everything in Vim script.
So it's an IDE as well.
But I tend to just use it as a letter editor.
What that means is I tend to use a standalone debugger.
So Pudby is one of those.
It's a standalone debugger.
I'm not sure why, but I've never been a big fan of PDB,
the one that comes with Python.
Part of that is 'cause it's based on GDB,
which I never liked either.
I just need to see more screen,
more code on my screen at a time.
And so this is a TUI program, which is text user interface.
And it's for, and if you wanna, again,
shout out to the old folks in the audience,
it's got a very Borland turbo feel to it.
So you can see the screen and the text
that you're working on.
and then there's a couple little side windows with your stack
and your variables and set breakpoints,
all the things you expect a debugger to do.
And if you're stopped at a breakpoint, you can open up a REPL,
and it gives you full context of where you are,
just like you would with inside a PDB.
So I find oftentimes I'm doing more debugging in the REPL
in context than I am actually in the debugger.
Now, why this is a big deal for me is, let alone the local,
if I were using PyCharm or whatever, I can work locally,
this will work anywhere where I can SSH into.
So it, because it runs over the terminal,
I can get into a machine, I can use this and have it work.
And it means I'm using consistent environment
across all the places I go.
So I don't try to sell this to other people.
When I manage teams, I don't say you will use this,
but it tends to be my go-to.
And I like to tell people that it's out there
'cause you never know when you have to do that remote stuff.
- Yeah, a lot of times, you know, like,
it works on my machine,
and you get the certification even there.
It works on my machine.
And then I go to the server and it doesn't work.
And I can't really figure out why, you know,
especially when you're setting up a new environment,
you're like, ah, trying to run the web app now
in micro WSGI over here,
and it just won't start or something like that, right?
So the ability to get a little more insight
over SSH is pretty cool.
- Yep.
- Yeah.
Good. All right.
Is this I think this may be our last
sort of no second to last general general library is talks.
Yep. So this is a wrapper for all your tests. So it
essentially builds virtual environments based on
quick little configuration file. So give you an example.
Let's say I've got a line that says
by brace 373839310-django400.
It knows how to split that apart
and will do all the combinations of running Python 3.7
with 400, 3.8 with 400, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
And it creates a little virtual environment
for each one of those combinations
and then runs all of your unit tests
inside of that virtual environment.
So if you're doing library support
across multiple Python versions
or across multiple, say, Django versions,
then you can mix and match these with just a few lines
inside of a configuration file,
and it will go off and run all of this.
And those virtual environments are created locally
and cached, so although the first time it runs,
it's dreadfully slow 'cause it has to pip install
all of your requirements in each one of those environments.
Once that's set up, it just leaves them there,
which means first time hurts,
and after that, it's not too bad.
- So what are those trade-offs between,
I want an absolutely clean from scratch reproducible thing.
But I also want to get my job done.
So if you're going to test across
five different versions of Python,
maybe don't try to pip install something like microWISGY
or other things that have to compile for a great long while.
Just leave it there.
- Yes.
Well, you know, because it does compile and leave it,
let it do it, go get dinner, come back and just never delete
that virtual environment ever, ever again.
- There you go.
Yeah, I suspect it has multiple levels of caching as well.
Like if I pip install something
and it's exactly the same version,
it'll still be cached even on my machine,
even if I recreate the virtual environment.
So it's probably.
- Yes, so there's levels of it.
It essentially just creates a, I'm trying to remember,
I think it's ., it might even be .vm,
it might be .talks, I can't remember,
But it essentially just creates a directory
and creates a directory inside of that
for each one of your combinations.
And then pip installs into that virtual environment.
So when it runs the next time,
it'll do upgrades and things like that.
And if you need to, you can just go in
and RMRF the directory and blow it away
if you're running into trouble
and need to start from scratch.
- It sounds interesting for a web app.
It sounds super useful for a library package.
- That's where I tend to use it.
So we'll talk later about one of my little bits
of self-promotion here.
but I've got a couple Django libraries that are out there
and I support 3.6 through 4.0,
I haven't got around to 4.1 yet,
and three or four versions of Django in it.
And every once in a while, you'll run into something
that just doesn't work in some version
that you think is generic.
And it's become a lot easier
since I've dropped support for 2.7
'cause there was a lot more crap having to deal with that.
But that's how you catch those things.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- Right, and the last general one.
- Yeah, this is, I mean,
well, this one's right on the order.
- Programming too long
and you just need to take like a little bit of a nap
or what's going on? - That's what it's for.
That's right.
So a pillow is for sleeping
and it's also for image manipulation.
So I don't do a lot of graphics stuff.
My Batman logo notwithstanding,
it was very early on in my programming career.
But in fact, Django has a semi-dependency on this.
So you don't need it out of the gate,
but if you're using certain features in Django,
you do have to have it installed.
There's a field in Django, which is the image file field,
and it uses the pillow library to make sure
that the files that are associated with it
actually are images.
So this is a really deep,
really cool image processing library,
and I tend to just skim the surface of it.
I use it for image,
and I use it for a couple libraries as well
that deal with image thumbnails,
but otherwise I don't really touch it.
But it tends to be one of those things that,
if I go through all of the virtual environments
set up on my system, I'm finding,
oh, it's installed in a lot of them.
So it's one of those that's kind of common
that I, because I don't do a lot of image stuff,
it's not something that I'm playing with a lot,
but it's very, very powerful.
So if you're into this kind of stuff,
this is a great library to play with.
And if you're not, you may want just the surface level pieces
for some web things like thumbnails.
- If you're running a website that accepts,
say, image upload, for example.
- Yes.
- You obviously need this for the Django RM field
that's the image type, but you could also say,
if it's too large, let's just resize it,
or you can resize it to the same size all the time.
It drives me crazy when I go to sites that are like,
this image is 1500 by something,
and we only support 1280.
Like just resize it then.
>> Yes.
Yeah.
I've also used it in some command line scripts, which
will create two or three versions of an image that
is in the static files.
So it'll automatically go through.
And like you said, OK, we've got our master that's 1,500
by 1,500.
And it'll go create some extra ones or whatever.
And you run a command, and it'll run
through all your static files and check
that there's two or three size versions
or that kind of thing.
So again, playing with the web size is important, right?
So.
- Yeah, for example, if you wanna have icons
for your web app that can be saved to iOS home screens,
you know, they want all these different sizes
from like 512 down to 64.
And if you're doing retina or high resolution,
you can have different ones that get swapped in and out.
And like, it would be really nice
to just automate all that, right?
- That's right, yeah.
- Yep, cool, all right.
This one, I'm going to vote this next one here as probably the best icon of all the
things we're going to talk about.
It's the Django Ninja.
Yes, they've done a good job with it.
It's a very special flavor of marketing to open source projects, isn't there?
Yes, there is.
Yes.
I think it's called none.
(laughing)
We could talk for hours on why it's called the GIMP.
Anyways, so I find that because I'm a Django guy,
I don't have a really strong need
for single page applications.
A lot of the work I find I end up doing Django templates
is good enough for many of the pages in the application,
but then there's gonna be some pages
where you wanna do fancier stuff.
So I often use view.js,
so that I can do best of both worlds there.
So I, you know, this is kind of a multi-page application.
So those pages that require SPA kind of feel to it,
they have view on it.
And those that don't,
I just use generic 1.0 web style stuff.
So in the 2.0 world,
you need REST APIs and enter Django Ninja.
This is what it does.
So it sits on top of a Django view
and essentially restifies the view.
And when I say on top, I mean that literally,
you actually use decorators.
So you write a view, decorate it with an HTTP method
like get or put, and then that view outputs JSON
instead of your usual HTML.
The library is built on top of Pydantic,
so it relies heavily on the types
to help it define the JSON that comes out.
You write a little schema file that says the names
on types of the fields for the JSON output.
And it's got a schema that is based on top of Django models.
So this works a lot like a model form
if you've ever used one of those.
So let's say I've got a Django model called a customer,
I can create a schema called customer out
that inherits from Django, from Ninja's model schema.
I create a subclass called config,
which is kind of like the meta subclass in Django.
and it sets the model attribute to point to the customer.
And if I wanna use all the fields in the model, that's it.
It's basically just the three lines.
And you can customize that to like model form.
You can say, don't use all the fields,
only use these fields,
or you can add fields if there's things like,
say you want a field called name
that combines first name and last name,
you can build something that computes that
so that it doesn't actually use the model directly.
So oftentimes you end up having to write a couple of these
'cause you often need the inbound and the outbound
to have different fields in it.
So a common practice is to have your schema
for customer be called say customer out or customer in.
And there's nothing that enforces that,
but that's how they do it in their documentation
and that kind of just sort of habit as you go along.
- Yeah, it's so tempting sometimes to think,
oh, we can just exchange the same model,
inbound and outbound.
in so many ways that just doesn't pan out.
Even if you're using something like a Beanie or SQL model
or something where like literally the pedantic model
goes in the database as well,
often that's not even the same thing.
'Cause for example, you're inbound create user,
you want a password, your response,
you'd never want to send the user a password directly back.
You shouldn't even know what it is.
- The ID field is the most common thing, right?
Like every model's got one.
And there's hacks you can do to say,
oh, if it's zero, it's a create,
and that's a common way of doing things.
But for Django Ninja,
what I often just do is just leave it out.
And because they're objects like anything else,
you can inherit it, right?
So you can start with the in and then add the out
and add the ID to it.
So there's ways around that's what it comes down to.
- So the Django Ninja can be plugged
into an existing Django app.
It's not like a separate thing that I run
that is also like Tinga?
Yeah, so it's actually just stuff that sits on top.
It's got its own routes. So essentially, you're building
Django views, but you're decorating them with the ninja.
And when you decorate it, it automatically collects
all of those underneath one path in the URLs file.
So you set up a router, usually you set it to say something like /api.
And so back to that customer example I was using,
If I added a view for createCustomer,
I set it to the customer path, and because it's decorated,
it automatically ends up under /API/customers.
So it takes care of a lot of that for you.
And it looks like it also has Async support as well,
which is pretty neat.
It started from scratch with the Async.io.
I'm not 100% sure of this, but I think there's a couple
former DRF guys on here, and I think it was a rewrite
from scratch with async from the beginning and Pydantic.
So I think it's sort of the next generation.
And if they aren't, if the key writers weren't in the DRF,
they obviously took a lot of learning from what was there
and what worked and what didn't work.
- It's pretty familiar to fast API type of programming.
And it has a lot of uses of type hints, right?
For example, you have an API function that takes a delay.
It says it's an integer.
I suppose it probably actually parses that and validates it.
Yes, yeah. Well, and it's particularly useful as well,
because by the time you're getting things down into your web string,
everything is string, right?
When you post it, it's all coming up in the string.
So somebody somewhere has to go, "Oh, that's supposed to be an int,"
and try to convert it. So it takes care of a lot of that kind of stuff.
And in fact, one of the reasons there's so little coding in this,
particularly with the schema definitions, is because you're just...
if you've already got that model file, it knows the Django field is a text field or is a Boolean or is an integer and it goes, Oh, okay, I know what to do with that, right? So it essentially, it's building on top of that stuff that's already there for your existing code.
That's really cool. And you basically so much of the validation has already happened by the time it gets to you. Yeah, you're much closer to the right answer. You have to check so many things, but much less code you have to write.
And if that's not good enough, on top of all of this is it comes with a web-based debugging view.
So it lists all of your registered calls, you can go and click on things,
if authentication is required for the call, and it's got a whole bunch of stuff in the back end for that as well.
You can click through and say, okay, I push this button and paste in my key or hit the login button in my Django and then use it that way.
So it allows you to sort of see all of this and it includes in it the output in curl.
So as you're using the debugger, you can copy and paste the line
into your terminal and then run it and curl.
So it's a quick little tool for helping you sort of figure it all out.
Pretty powerful.
Mm-hmm. It even has an interesting sync to async adapter decorator
to allow you to work with the ORM.
- Yeah. - So it's kind of a...
Well, it shouldn't be as necessary now that 4.1's out
'cause that was one of the major changes in Django 4.1
is they added async to the ORM.
So-- - Yeah, that's really
a big deal.
- I actually remember one of the comments
that's on Twitter after 4.1 came out,
"Oh, the Django guys, the Ninja guys are gonna love this."
I'm like, yeah. (laughs)
- Sounds like it.
All right, Julio asks,
"Is this as complete as Django REST framework?"
And Nick Harvey says,
"It looks lighter than Django REST framework."
Maybe give your thoughts
and then we can maybe pull up the next topic.
Why don't we punt seeing as the next one is the Django rest framework?
Yeah, then we'll come back.
Talk about it as we go along.
The short answer is no, it's definitely not as complete.
So the Django rest framework or DRF to its friends is Ninja's granddaddy.
And it for a long time was the go to rest library in Django.
Like Ninja, it breaks things down into serializers.
That's the equivalent of a schema and then views and routes.
And like Ninja, it supports decorators, but it also supports classes.
But because it's older, it doesn't support the type mechanism.
So you have to do a little more boilerplate code to get this going.
You have to do a few more things with the serializers.
It tends to I was going to say it tends to favor a class based approach.
I'm not sure if that's true.
When I write with the DRF, I tend to use the class based approach.
There are other mechanisms in there, but it seems to be the one
that felt natural for me there.
It has a concept called a ViewSet class,
and this is really where it shines
because you define an object which is an endpoint,
and then you can say inside of that endpoint,
I want to do list and create and retrieve and update and destroy,
and you tie that into your query set,
and it does all of those things for your object.
So back to my customer example, I could build out that customer endpoint,
and then I can say I want to use list, create, and retrieve,
and it'll allow me to create a customer
or list all the customers or get a specific customer.
And it does it based on mix-ins, so you can mix and match
which of those choices you want.
So it's sort of this composing kind of mechanism.
Sorry, I lost my thoughts there for a second.
- Yeah, I have a question or sort of an observation here
from, to be fair, I haven't done much with DRF,
but it feels to me like a lot of what you're getting
with DRF is like, I have a database table,
let me do the rest things to it.
Like I wanna be able to do a get against,
and get all of them, or get against an ID
and get individual ones.
I wanna be able to do a post and maybe create one
where it's a lot, it seems like it's very structured
around CRUD, but over API.
- Yes. - Is that accurate or no?
- So there are ways around it.
So that the concept of a serializer
does not have to be tied to a model,
but this is a tool for Django.
So it's not really a surprise
that it's kind of tied to the models.
And that's for the most part, even with Ninja,
I find 80% of what you're doing over the rest API
is mapping to your database models in the first place,
particularly if you're doing it for something like React
because the things in your database
are usually what you're showing up on the screen,
so it usually tends to map fairly easily.
And there's enough depth there that if you need to introduce
new fields or do something custom, it doesn't handcuff you.
It does allow you to do a lot of this stuff easier though.
So if you are sticking with things that map nicely
to your database, then it requires far less code,
is what it comes down to.
- Sure.
- So the, I guess to get back to that sort of question,
Ninja's definitely lighter weight.
It definitely I find requires less code than the DRF
because it takes advantage of things like the typing
which DRF's older and it didn't exist
and it was compatible with Python 2
and some of the stuff where those type pieces weren't there.
It has, DRF has a much richer output listing.
output listing.
So if I were going to need something
that was not JSON based, for example, over REST,
I might go back to the DRF.
So it's got mechanisms for either through it
or through plugins, YAML, XML, MessagePack, Excel,
even LaTeX, right?
So there's libraries that go with these libraries
that sort of connect these things together.
So yeah, there's a lot of depth here.
The only place that the DRF makes me really, really nervous
and is the permission mechanism.
I have shot myself in the foot
a few too many times doing it.
It's fine by default,
but then as soon as you start mucking with it a little bit,
it seems to open up a whole bunch of things.
You have to make sure once you start playing in that space
that you do it correctly and test properly.
Otherwise you could have gaping holes.
Ninja seemed to be a little more locked down by default.
So I kind of liked that, but that could just
because I'm missing toes from playing
with the DRF over the years.
[LAUGHS]
>> You know what the guns look like?
>> Yeah.
Tshar asks, I think this is probably
in reference to the Django Ninja.
It looks similar to FastAPI, and how would you compare them?
>> Yeah, it's a lot of similar kind of concepts.
And in fact, either between FastAPI,
the typing mechanisms, is FastAPI directly based on Pydantic
or just deeply influenced by it?
- I think yes.
I feel like Pydantic became very popular
because of FastAPI, but they're separate projects.
- Okay, yeah.
So Ninja is built on top of Pydantic.
So they're all being inspired by the same thing
and trying to solve very similar problems.
So it's not surprising that people are seeing.
- Yeah, exactly.
And at the bottom of the Django Ninja site,
it says this project was heavily inspired by FastAPI.
My feeling is like, if you're already doing Django
and you wanna add APIs and you like FastAPI,
this might be a really good option
because it brings so much of a similar model,
but you don't have to now maintain two apps
that like run separately or version separately, all that.
- Yeah, yeah.
I also find it's got a little bit of a flask flavoring
as well, right, as to how some of those pieces.
And again, that's the same thing,
fast API using the decorators, using the types, right?
So it's a similar kind of influences, if nothing else.
- Yeah, very neat, I think.
All right, Django Grappelli.
What's this one for?
- All right, so a little bit of a tangent here for a second.
Django is named after a jazz guitarist named Django Reinhardt and he was often a duo working
with somebody named Stefan Grappelli. So if you're looking for a name for a library for Django,
Grappelli is a good fit. So now great we've got a name, what does it do? This is actually a
re-skinning of the Django admin. So the Grappelli folks have taken advantage of the fact that the
the Django admin is built on top of the Django templating mechanism.
And they've rewritten all those templates using a new style.
The style still feels a little dated,
but not quite as dated as the Django admin.
So it's a step in the right direction.
It does logical things like a lot of the top right hand corner,
you know, reset password view page,
a lot of that stuff gets moved into like little drop downs and that kind of thing.
The coloring is a little more consistent.
It uses a footer. So like the actions are always in the same place. It just generally feels cleaner to me
I
Often use the Django admin for like my back-end support people. I don't tend to use it customer facing
So I you know folks who are trainable and I find that when I've used it with them
Grappelli feels better for them. They just it feels a little more intuitive
So it's just a really is just a skin, but it's a nice skin and it's a really easy install
You have very little you have to do you get a couple couple changes to your settings.py file and it's all done for you. So
Yeah, also it looks like it, you know, you hear skin you think oh it's pretty but it also seems like it adds
More functionality like it adds autocomplete for foreign keys and relationships it as
Like a tiny MC which is rich text editor
It adds reordering through drag-and-drop. I mean those are a
Little bit more than just pretty right? Yeah, it's it's modernization of the interface is really what it comes down to. Yeah
Mm-hmm. Yeah, very cool
So another random Django bit of history to go along with the musicians
Was created in Lawrence, Kansas, right? Yes
- Newspaper? - Yep, by the newspaper.
That's where I went to college, so.
- Ah, okay.
- Right down the street from the home of Django,
around the same timeframe.
- There you go.
- Right, all right, so what's up next?
Import/export.
- Yep, so unlike-- - So it's like a distributor,
it's gonna make some money off selling rugs,
or what's the deal?
- Rugs, yes, sure, rugs.
(both laughing)
So unlike Gripteli, where you have no idea by the name,
This one's a little better.
You have an idea what it does.
Let's create it more straight to the point.
This is a utilitarian name.
I can import and I can export stuff from Django.
That's exactly it.
How does it work?
Not just a database dump, probably.
Something more.
It's built on top of Tablib,
which is a Python library for tabular data formats.
Essentially, it maps things out of your ORM
to whatever Tablib can handle.
That's Excel, JSON, YAML,
JSON, YAML, Pandas, HTML, JIRA, TSV, ODS, CSV, DBF,
and I even know what some of those acronyms mean.
So yeah, it's essentially your go-to place
for spitting stuff out.
Like Ninja and like the DRF,
it has this, what it calls resources.
This is like our schema.
And it essentially does that mapping thing again.
So you can say, I wanna take this model
and I wanna map it to this mechanism.
and then you just run it and say, "Export this to JSON,"
and you'll get it in JSON. "Export this to YAML,"
and it'll export it to YAML.
There are mechanisms inside of the resources,
similar to what I was talking about in Ninja and the DRF,
to do compositing. If I want a name field,
which is based on first name and last name,
it'll combine all those things and give that to you together.
And one of the things that I like most,
I haven't used this library a lot, but when I have used it,
it's because of this feature, which is it integrates nicely
with the Django admin.
So you essentially can build one of these resources,
let's say back to my customer example,
let's say you wanna be able to import customers.
You can essentially define the resource
and then you add a mix in to your customer admin object.
And it automatically gives you an import button
on the client screen.
And when you hit that import, it'll upload,
you give it the CSV file,
it gives you a little screen that says,
oh, this is the data that's coming in.
And you can say, yes, I like it.
and it'll put it into the database.
And it's smart enough to know the difference
between creates and updates.
So depending on whether or not your ID field is blank,
this is back to that zero thing
we were talking about before,
it will actually update things that are there.
So if you've got a situation where,
you've got a client phone book or something
that's maintained through some other system
and you need to keep them in sync,
this is a quick and easy way to do that.
Throw it together with say a management command
and stick it in a cron job,
and you can constantly push these things through.
- It might sound really simple,
but the ability to say,
"Hey, business person or manager or salesperson,
"you can just take your CSV and upload it,
"and you don't have to bother the dev team
"to add your data."
That's pretty fantastic, actually.
- One of my clients is a very lightweight CMS.
And of course, when they sign up a new customer,
they don't wanna have to input
their customer's data by hand, right?
So you can say, oh, it goes,
you have it in an Excel file somewhere, great.
Save as, put it in this format, suck it all the data in.
So it can make a big difference.
- Yeah, and the preview, make sure this looks good.
I think that's also important.
- And I find that's a lifesaver, right?
You know exactly what you're getting in there.
You can check it rather than it going,
running havoc all over your database.
- Which it probably would if people just
randomly start uploading stuff.
- Exactly.
- And that might make your app crash,
but you could use the Django debug toolbar
to figure out what's going on.
- Look at you, king of the segues.
Yes. - Oh yeah.
- So the next one here is, as you said,
this is the Django debug toolbar.
So this is a plugin for Django that overlays over your views
and gives you all sorts of information
what's going on in your page.
The installation's a little more involved than,
hey, just add this settings.py
'cause you need some middleware
and some static files and things.
But once you've, the instructions are good though,
so as long as you follow the instructions closely,
you'll be okay.
And once you got that going,
it pops up in the top right-hand corner.
I think that's actually configurable.
And it has a list of panels.
It comes with, I think it's 12 of them,
and then there's a whole bunch of plugins
that you can do as well.
So for example, there's a history information,
a useful one I find I use a fair amount is the time panel.
So it shows you the breakdown of where,
you know, where your call has been spent.
The one you've got up on the screen there right now
is the one that saves my bacon all the time,
which is the SQL panel.
So it shows you exactly what queries were run,
how long each of them took.
I understand enough database stuff
to just get me in trouble, right?
The ORM provides this nice abstraction
that I find really helpful,
but I'm aware that I'm, you know,
sometimes I'm doing things that aren't efficient in SQL.
So if you've got a sluggish--
- Or you don't know you're doing something inefficient,
right, you might not be aware you forgot a join.
- Exactly. - And so you have this
N plus one problem where you're like,
I thought I did one query, why are there 50 queries,
51 queries on this page? - Exactly.
- You know, it's like, well.
- And so when you've got that sluggishness,
you go to the time panel,
you see that you're spending all your time in the SQL space,
then you go to the SQL panel and you go,
oh, okay, so this is where it is,
I'm beating my database to death, why?
And then you can figure out, like you said,
oh, I need to add an index
or I need to change the join or whatever.
So.
- Right, so in the Django debug toolbar,
it has a time section that says CPU and total.
And if the CPU time is the majority,
then it's your Python code.
If it's not, then it's like, what are you waiting on?
Are you waiting on the database or an API
or go look somewhere else
'cause it's not your code exactly.
It's an external resource that's holding it up, right?
Yeah, so it helps you sort of pull these things through it.
And it's information that's available
in any profiler as well,
but it's there in combined with other things.
So you don't have to go do it separately.
So there's other ones there,
things like caching, headers, signal registering, logging,
the list goes on and then it's a published mechanism
for how you build your own panels.
So even on the main site,
there's another 19 panels with instructions
on how to write your own.
And if you go digging,
there are people that aren't in the official list as well.
So there are dozens and dozens of them out there.
- Yeah, for sure.
Probably in the awesome Django,
I bet you pulled up, you know,
I bet there's like a whole thing on the toolbar.
- Yeah, it was right there at the top of your testing.
That's right.
- Yeah, I thought maybe there'd be a list of plug-ins.
- Oh, a subsection, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, like a sub section.
But these things are really nice,
and I find them to be quite useful.
Yeah, they've got different--
I got the whole list here.
Profiling, that's kind of cool.
I guess one also, one really quick thing
you might want to touch on for everybody
is it might not be best to put this in production.
>>Yes.
>>I think there's a rule against turning this off
in production.
>>If I remember correctly, it will not
if debug is set to true-- is to false, excuse me.
So out of the box.
So if you're following best practices
of setting debug to false in your production environments,
it won't be there.
It doesn't hurt to belt and suspenders that, though.
I usually put this-- if I'm using it,
I usually put it inside of my requirements-dev.
And I have a little hack I use to build up my installed apps
that I add to it from local things, which there's a podcast
in and of itself there as to how you configure in different
environments. But I often only add this to that piece, or, you
know, hackishly commented in out as I need to.
Well, it's a little bit of a crude lever. But if it's not in
the requirements that txt or pyproject.toml or whatever,
you're not going to accidentally run the toolbar if it's not
installed. Don't install it in production.
Yep, exactly.
effective, right? All right. How about some local favor?
Yeah, local flavor. So this package, eons ago used to actually be inside of Django. And it just got
kept getting bigger and bigger. And essentially, this is the localization information for
different countries. So for example, the CA folder is for Canada, which is where I'm from,
includes a list of all the provinces, that's what we call states. It's got a widget for
for postal codes, which is what we call zip codes
and social insurance numbers,
which is what we call social insurance numbers.
Although we use a different acronym for whatever reason.
So essentially if you're using things
like shipping addresses, you want local flavor.
It's mostly just giant dictionaries
and collections of tuples,
but it's useful data that often
you would end up writing yourself
and it's always nice when somebody else is maintaining it.
And for any fellow non-Americans listening,
it is spelt without the U. I'm not sure if it was intentional when they picked the name
that the name itself needs internationalization or whether that was just an amusing little
accident but that's what it is.
Yeah, pretty funny. Even just having a country code is great. Is this something that maybe
makes sense to use outside of Django or is it or not?
I'm not sure how easy, I've never done it.
It might work.
It really is just a long dictionary
and collections of tuples,
but some of it's kind of Django-esque.
For example, the list of provinces is set up
so that you can use it easily inside of a dropdown
in a choices field.
So you might be able to take advantage of it without that,
but it's formatted in a fashion
that makes sense in the Django world.
Good to know. All right.
We already talked about the import and the export buttons,
but even more buttons on the admin.
Even more buttons. Yes, you can always do with more buttons.
So I've only used this one a couple times,
but it saved me a whole bunch of work,
so I thought it deserved a mention.
The Django admin area pretty much is mapped to your model objects.
It really is just sitting on top of your ORM.
And every once in a while, you're going to need something
that you want your support staff to be able to do
that isn't really directly tied to the ORM.
And in fact, I've seen libraries out there
that hack things creating fake objects inside of the database
so that they will show up in the ORM properly.
And instead of doing that, you use Admin Extra Buttons.
So this is really just a way of inserting views
into your admin.
And it's got a quick little mechanism for forms
so that if you hit a button, it'll pop up the form for you,
you can fill in the form, and then it'll give you the data
from the form as a callback, and then you can do whatever
you want with it. So where I've used it recently
was I had a complex account creation mechanism
that has to create five or six different objects
that have to be tied together. So instead of having
my support staff going in and using the admin
to create each one of those separately,
I gave them a little button, they fill in the form,
and it creates all the objects and ties them together nicely.
And actually, just a couple days ago, I added one
which was sometimes I'll have in production code
a couple accounts that are like sample accounts
that you want to reset the data to a known state
so that you can hand it off to demo somebody
or quick if you're trying to sell a client or something.
So this doesn't even require the form.
There's a mechanism in here called confirm action,
which essentially gives you the button,
it pops up a little thing that says, "Are you sure you want to do this?"
And if you say yes, it goes off and calls your little five lines of code.
So it's nice and clean.
The form rendering is, I think, ugly is the word,
but that kind of fits with the--
Traditional, traditional.
It's traditional.
It fits very nicely with what's inside of the Django admin.
It doesn't look out of place, but there's nothing sexy with it.
I have not used it in combination with Grappelli yet,
so it'd be interesting to see what happens in that case.
There's basically very little styling on the form,
but it has saved me a whole bunch of code.
And oftentimes, I find when you're writing things
for your support staff, they're spending 90% of the time
inside of the admin anyways, so pulling them out of it
for one special page is a bit of a pain.
And you usually have to write a whole bunch of extra stuff on top of it.
And so this, because it inserts it right inside of the admin,
means you don't have to get them into a different place,
and they're in an interface that they know how to use,
and makes things easier.
So very much like that import/export.
If import/export didn't exist and give you that button up top,
this would be a way of building it.
Yeah, really nice. And it's very decorator heavy.
It is. Yes. Yeah, everything's a button or a view. And you've
got up on the screen there, right? That's the confirm that I
was talking about at the top, you call it, decorate the view.
And that's because in this case, you're inserting it inside of
the actual Django admin model pieces, right? So you have to
essentially, the decorators are doing the registration to say,
okay, this this is extra code for the admin. It's how they're
hooking it all. Yep. Yeah, it looks very, very useful. All
right. We got a couple more. Yep, this one. I think I know
the guy who created this one. I Yes. So this is a little bit of
blatant self promotion. This is Django all a WL like the leather
working tool. And yeah, this is one of mine. I if I had been
aware of the Django extensions library at the time that I wrote
this, I probably should have just contributed to the Django
extensions library would have been the smarter thing. But at
the time, I wasn't familiar with it. And since then, I've been
maintaining this beast. It's a general collection of a whole
bunch of crap like extensions that I just found I was writing
over and over again, every single time I went to a client.
So one of the times I was doing that the client, I went to the
client and said, let's open source this stuff. And they
went, Okay, great. And since then, I've been doing this. So
you sell widgets, you don't sell Django admin extensions, like
Let's make the world a better place and contribute back ideas.
Exactly.
This will hurt you.
So big list of random crap, right?
So a bunch of mix ins, CSS color utilities, some context processor pieces.
There's a custom admin commands.
Yep.
There's decorators in here that make sure that you're doing a post with JSON content
so that if somebody is calling your view in the illegal way,
it screams ranked models.
So one, two, three, four, five,
and gives you a little thing inside of the admin
to move them up and down.
Some testing tools.
So there's a custom test runner in here,
which adds a whole bunch of features for doing things
like getting out information out of the Django admin
and checking that the fields in the admin are correct.
So really just sort of a little catch all that's out there.
But yeah, it's here and I happily take PRs.
So go find it, break it.
If you find it useful, great.
If you don't send me a note and tell me why not
and I'll fix it.
- Yeah, lovely.
It looks really useful.
And then-
- I'll stop with the shameless promotion after this one.
This is Django Airplane.
So I used to have to do a lot of traveling when I was consulting and being on a plane
is a great place to get some uninterrupted four or five hours of coding in, unless you're
coding on the web and particularly in the olden days when you didn't get Wi-Fi on the
planes and even now it's spotty and expensive.
You can't really count on it, yeah.
So what I found was, you know, if I'm using something like Bootstrap from a CDN, I would
get in and I'd be trying to run my Django site and be like, oh crap, nothing's looking
right because the CDN's there.
So this is essentially a little tag that you use anywhere
where you would use an HRF for links or style sheets or whatever.
And then there is a setting that defines the mode of the system.
And if you're in build mode, anytime these tags find it,
they'll go off, they'll grab the content, and they'll save it to the disk
and just runs the page normally.
And then when you're in cache mode, instead of trying to get to the internet,
it pulls it off of the disk.
So it's nothing terribly complicated, but it solved a particular problem that I was
having a lot.
And now that I'm not really traveling, I'm not touching it as much, but if folks out
there find it useful.
>>DANIEL: Except for change in the world, people travel less.
I don't know.
It's kind of weird.
>>ANDREW: Yeah.
Yeah.
There's been a few changes.
Life has changed.
>>DANIEL: There have been changes.
Although I did travel recently and it pandemonium.
So if you want madness, you can go back and try to fly.
Yeah.
So this is really nice.
you say airplane instead of a static ref to a CD and you say airplane and then the reference to the
CDN and either it just passes through
or it can download and then pass through or you can say I'm in this development mode just I
Don't have I'm either at like a coffee shop or I'm traveling or whatever and just let me I'm you know
Another good use case not just airplane even though that's the name is if you're at a hotel with notoriously bad internet
that you're traveling for work
and you gotta get a presentation
or new version ready for the morning,
like that can be a super frustrating experience.
- Yeah, well, it's, you know,
it essentially moves anything that's normally
on your internet down to your hard drive
if you've tagged it properly.
And there's a couple of management commands as well.
So like, it'll tell you what's in your cache
and you know, how to see it
and how to wipe it out if you need to.
So there's a couple of little utilities,
but like I said, it's one of those libraries
that is simple, doesn't do a lot,
but solves a particular problem.
So if you're having that problem, go for it.
>>Luis: Yeah, fantastic.
Your example is for CSS.
Can I leverage this to do JSON API somehow,
like offline some API calls or anything?
Or is there not really a way to fit that together?
>>Tom: I don't think it would work.
If it's a straight URL that was always
coming back with the same value and it was hard coded,
it probably shouldn't care.
But yeah, it would depend on how you were using it.
- Yeah, sure.
All right, let's see.
Last one.
That's when you always put last security, right?
Just kidding.
- Okay, we're skipping ahead.
Got it, no problem.
- Oh, are we skipping ahead?
- I had Django extensions next, so.
- Oh yeah.
I think I just didn't open that one.
- Okay, that's fine.
So I kind of touched on this one
when I was talking about Django all.
This is a collection of things
that probably should just be built into Django.
It's really what it comes down to.
There's a whole bunch of different areas.
Again, it's this huge hodgepodge.
So there's extra tools for the admin,
more management commands, more signals,
template filters, extra model fields, job management.
It's a very lightweight job management,
but if you're not at the level where you want to use Celery
or something like that, this might be good enough for you.
some model mix-ins, permission mix-ins, extra validators,
some utility methods.
The one I use here all the time,
particularly when I was learning Django Ninja
and I was trying to understand how the router worked
is a management command called show URLs.
It'll show you all the URLs you've registered,
what their keywords are and how to call them.
So it's a nice little introspective kind of thing
to work through backwards.
It's got another management command called run script.
And this one's so useful that I had the exact same thing
in Django all again, as I said,
I should have just looked at this library first.
And the idea of run script is it gives you a Django context
for running a Python script.
So this is kind of like the dash dot slash management
shell command, where it gives you inside of a Django context
but it does it for the script that you're running.
So if you--
- Oh, that's cool.
- So things like the database are initialized and stuff?
- Exactly.
- Okay.
- So I find I generally use it if I'm debugging, right?
So if I've got three or four things I want to do
in the database and I need to run it three or four times
until I figured out what the problem is,
rather than constantly doing that in the REPL
over and over again, you stick it in a file,
run the script, look at your debug,
or use it in the debugger, of course,
is the other thing there,
'cause you can step through that a lot easier
than you can say inside of a REPL.
So a lot of good stuff here.
And it's one of those libraries that I find
every time I look at it, I'm like,
oh, I have to remember that's there.
And then I forget, but you always have to sort of go back
and dig through it.
So it's a good little toolbox.
- SQL diff looks cool for probably pre-post migration.
- Yeah, there's three or four SQL commands in there
that'll tell you how your migrations are,
how they've changed, how you're managing them,
what it's doing to them.
Django has since added a couple of things
that are similar to it inside of the core library,
but these are definitely more powerful.
So yeah, if you're trying to figure out
what's going on with your models,
there's some interesting stuff in there as well.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, maybe that brings us to Django AllAuth.
- There we go, this is it.
This is the last one.
So this is Django AllAuth.
This is your go-to place for authentication.
It has a series of workflows in it
that are your typical user management things
like sign up, email addresses, email verification,
password resets.
And so I don't usually use it for that.
I use it for the thing that most people use it for,
which is it's got this hook
for your social media account authentication.
So most social media sites use either OAuth or OAuth 2.
And so if you've ever been on one of those webpages
that says, you can sign in or create an account
with your Facebook account or your Google account,
this is a plugin that allows you to do that
inside of your Django space.
They have over a hundred different providers.
I stopped counting. I just gave up after a while.
Yeah.
Most of them are overlays on top of OAuth 2,
but there are also some that are custom as well.
And what happens is when a user signs up using one of these,
it still uses the standard Django user,
but then it creates an associated object.
And the advantage of this design is it means different users can use different things.
I can sign in using Facebook, you can sign in using Git
or Google or what GitHub or Google, but we still end up with in the same user style account
inside of the database.
But the other advantage of it is you can also associate multiple things.
So say you were writing a site that wanted people to be able to log in through GitHub
or GitLab, but also wanted to be able to tweet, where you could not necessarily allow logging
in with Twitter, but you could allow them to authenticate through it so that they you
could tweet on their behalf.
So it allows you to start connecting and play with all those things.
The plugin, the workflow is plugin.
I love that.
Try that again.
The workflow is pluggable as well.
So there's hooks inside of the signup process.
So let's say you've got some questions
that you need to ask the user when they sign up,
like extra information that Django doesn't normally have.
It's got a flow for that that helps you with it.
So really, really comprehensive library.
The only thing I find that's challenging with this
really has nothing to do with the library itself.
It's just that third party authentication tends to be messy
and you're, you're, you are always dealing with tokens and provider sites and all the rest of it. And you're going to register your, your OAuth application at, you know, exactly. And you're always going to be in this space of, did I screw it up? Is it the token that's not right? Am I not hooking the library incorrectly? I always find it's a little finicky. Now once you get it going, it's fine. But there it does tend to be a little cumbersome getting there.
Yeah, it's a little magical and like the traditional sense like it can just work amazingly and but if it doesn't like I just don't know what the incantation was to give it is because it's just not it won't it won't do the thing.
You're debugging something that is somebody else's responsibilities you're not getting a lot of information out of the host system usually.
Yeah, and often it's encrypted and signed and like stuff doesn't match.
It's like, how are you supposed to know how it doesn't match anyway?
But I mean, that's the story of OAuth and OAuth2, not this library problem, right?
The library makes it a lot easier.
It's just like you said, there's still a level that is painful.
It swims in complex water.
One thing that is kind of nice here is you can unroll your OAuth as well.
You can say I did originally sign up on GitHub,
But I just want to make an account password from my account now and let you drop that out, which is I think kind of cool.
Yeah, I think it was a very smart architectural decision to continue to use the Django authentication mechanism underneath.
It means from a support standpoint, you don't have to worry about a lot of things.
You can still see them inside of the admin.
You're not have to worry those pieces.
And like you said, if something goes wrong with somebody's Facebook account, you don't lose anything.
you basically, you know, they can send you a support email
and you can send them a password reset
off of a primary account and re-hook them up another way,
which is a thing of beauty.
- Yeah, that's great.
All right, well, I would say we're a little over time,
but it's been a super interesting list
to talk through with.
So let's maybe call it a wrap
on however many topics we came up with.
A whole bunch of cool ideas for doing more with Django
and Python web apps in general.
So thanks for that.
- Happy to do it.
- Yeah, now before we get out of here,
got to answer the two questions.
- Well, I've answered one of them already.
(both laughing)
- You can write some code, but what editor do you use?
- Yeah, so I'm Vim.
And for those who are taking the course,
I used PyCharm there,
so you don't have to understand antiquated,
speaking of magic, you don't have to follow along there.
So I did use PyCharm there, but Vim is still my standard.
- Right on, and then notable PyPI package.
It can be any one of these you wanna give a shout out to.
We've really kind of answered that question a bunch of times
but if you wanna give a shout out to something else as well.
- I got something else for you, which is AsciiMatics.
So I do a lot of Tui work
and I'm really keen on this library.
They have a bunch of form widget stuff
and also a whole bunch of cool, awesome
80s style animation bits and pieces.
Core developer is a guy named Peter Britton.
Very responsive, always looking for MR.
So yay, Peter and AsciiMatic.
So if you're into this space,
this is definitely something to check out.
- Wow, amazing.
Yeah, it looks pretty awesome.
All right, great example.
All right, final call to action.
So many of the things that we've talked about here,
if they're interesting,
people wanna learn how to actually use them,
Grappelli, create your own admin command,
a bunch of other stuff covered in your course.
So you can check that out over at talkpython.fm.
So I'm gonna go ahead and click on the course.
And I'm gonna go ahead and click on the course.
If you're, you know, if you just want to play a little bit,
then, or you're learning more about how Django works,
the debug toolbar is a fantastic way of sort of learning
some of the internals and taking your Django
to the next level, 'cause it's exposing a bunch of that stuff
that you kind of think you know how it works.
So it's a nice little place of doing a tutorial.
So those might be good places to start.
- Yeah, that's cool.
The framework tries to hide a lot of that stuff.
The toolbar will like reveal it, what's going on, right?
Yeah, well as good framework should,
but every once in a while you want to see
the guy behind the curtain, so.
- That's right.
All right, Chris, well, thank you so much for being here.
It's been a whole lot of fun.
- Yeah, enjoyed it.
- Yeah, same, see ya.